# Artorius
Artorius is a coreXY 3D printer focused on reliability, quality, and speed while making use of repurposed BIQU B1 components.

This project started back in the spring of 2024 and is still currently ongoing. Originally, I took on this project because my BIQU B1 was very slow and unreliable, so I wanted to bring it up to the next generation of 3D printing. However, after the first iteration of building it, I realized that it was a more fitting goal to make it run faster and the same or better quality as my Bambulabs P1S.

As most things do, I started by looking at how other people had made their printers. I drew inspiration from the E3NG, Voron Trident/2.4, Annex K3, Mercury one, and VZBot printers' designs. The E3NG was a similar project to mine, so it served as a lot of foundation for what I did with the frame although looking back I know now that putting two smooth rods as the front support is not ideal for rigidity. The Voron, VZBot, and Annex K3 all gave me insight about how to wire the printer and make sure that it looks clean; in specific, the Annex K3 had a user-based mod where the backpack was on the side, and I decided to use that as it was aesthetically appealing to me. The Mercury one gave me the idea to have my motors grip the belts like a parabola where there are 2 bearing stacks and the motor behind them. In all steps of the design, I solely CADed the parts that would be printed using community-sourced reference geometry for aluminum extrusion, electronics, and other hardware.

Once I was finished with designing the first iteration, I had a semi-functioning 3D printer. It could push high speeds, but it was clearly at prototype level quality. The electronics housing was nonexistent as was the cable management, and it needed constant human assistance in the form of taking filament off the spool since I had neither designed a spool holder nor a reverse bowden setup. Changing filament was also clunky as the filament path had incosistencies from the inaccurate reference geometries as well as just strange geometry making the filament get caught between the extruder and hotend.
